In the last section we added some logic to handle the case in which our user both fails to sign in and
sign up.
Let's now test this out in the simulator and see if that error message is actually appearing.
So I flip over to the simulator.
I'll do my refresh and then for my e-mail I'm going to put in an email of test at test dot com and a
password of password.
So now when I click logon we're going to run that on button press handler right here.
So we're going to run this code and the first time that I log in my expectations are going to be that
I it's failed this case because I do not yet have an account with the e-mail of test at test dot com.
But I expect that I will succeed in creating an account.
So the first time I press this button I expect basically nothing to happen.
So I press it and yep looks good and nothing happens whatsoever.
Now I'm going to change my password only with password to just some you know basically random string
of characters here.
Now this time around I will attempt to sign in with an email and password the email will be test at
test dot com but the password will be incorrect so I'm going to hit the catch case.
I'm going to try to create a user account with a test that test dot com email but this call right here
is also going to fail because that e-mail is already in use.
And so going to hit my second catch statement and I'll expect to see the error message.
So let's test this out.
All I do is click log in
and we get the authentication failed message here.
He also knows that it took a little bit of time to actually complete that request like we are waiting
a good two or three seconds there.
That definitely tells me that hey you know what we might need some methodology or something and tell
our user that this request is still pending like we are waiting for an update.
We're trying to log in but just give us a second.
Otherwise our users are going to think that you know this feels awfully broken.
So it looks like the air handling is in a good spot here.
I want to do one small thing though that will throw a wrench in our plans.
I'm going to delete our password.
I'm going to put in my correct one.
So my credit password is password and then I'm going to click the logon button.
So now my expectation here is that I will successfully log in because I have the correct e-mail and
the correct password.
So I will log in and I'm waiting waiting waiting.
And.
OK.
You know I only know what happens is happening.
I definitely expect to have successfully logged in here.
So what's really happening at this point in time is we don't have any logic whatsoever to clear out
this error message.
If a user attempts to log in again right we want to assume the user attempts to log in a second time.
We want to make sure that we clear this error message immediately just so that they know that OK like
I do this follow up request you know me trying to log in again is pending.
And then eventually maybe the error message will pop up.
So to handle that case inside of our button press handler if here which is called the instant user presses
on button I'm going to call this set state air and I'm going to reset it to be an empty object.
So now if I fail to log in once and then I attempt to log in again that error message is going to instantly
clear out and the user is going to know.
Hey all right.
Like you know recently I believe that the OP is trying to log me in again.
So let's test this out put him test at test dot com.
I'm going to put in a bad password just to get an error message to appear on the screen.
An hour replace it with a good password and get a click log in and the instant I click it the error
message goes away.
Exactly what I want.
It lets the user know OK we acknowledge you put in a new email and password and you are attempting to
log in again as a quick aside.
I want to point out that this is a big difference between web development and mobile development.
If you've got any type of background in web development you know that sometimes we can kind of bend
the rules when it comes to us like on you x.
Maybe we wouldn't really have to throw in all this fancy error handling show the user an error message
and clear it out all the time.
All this kind of stuff.
We even have to show a spinner or anything like that.
But with mobile where we sometimes have awful internet connectivity or Wagih mobile devices giving strong
feedback to the user is paramount.
So we spend a lot more time with re-act native than with reality.
Yes.
To make sure that we give our user a lot more signaling about the actions that they're committing inside
of our app.
So on that note again when I attempt to sign in there is definitely a non-zero Pozen here like there
is some distinct pause as I attempt as I attempt to authenticate myself right.
Like if I put in a bad password I'm waiting I'm waiting I'm waiting.
And there we go.
Finally I get that authentication failed message appearing.
So you can imagine that if I'm on a 2G or 3G network connection this request is going to take quite
some time.
So with that in mind I suggest that when a user presses the button to log in we show a spinner instead
of this log in button right here.
Just so the user knows hey we've got it.
We're attempting to log in.
Then when the user successfully logs in or fails whatever might be we should show the button again and
hide the spinner.
So basically we're talking about toggling the spinner a little bit.
Now I expect that there will be several locations within our app that we're creating where we will want
to show a spinner to the user.
So I'm going to suggest that we make a standalone spinner or component that can be re-usable guys.
That's that's our goal here.
We're going to create a spirit component that is reusable.
You know what to do now whenever we make a reusable component we'll make a new file inside of our components
come common directory.
So I'm going to make a new file called spinner.
J.S. inside of that common directory.
And inside it here will play some boiler plate from making a new component.
So we'll place import re-act from react on imports view from Riak native and I'm going to make my component.
I expect this to just be a presentational component like either.
Want to show a spinner where I don't.
So this components not going to have any requirement for state because basically if I try to write rendered
the spinner The idea here is I should get a spinner on the screen so I'll make a functional component.
And from here I will return.
Right now just the single view tag.
And at the bottom of place my export statement because this is one of our reusable components that we
are rerouting through that index J.S. file.
We use spinner with the braces in here.
So speaking of which Let's hop over to the index file and make sure that we route that import statement
through here.
So we'll say export star from Speir.
So now any other file inside of our application can import the spinner component from just the referencing
the column directory which definitely matches our pattern with all of the other reusable components
that we have.
OK.
Let's take a quick break and finish up with a spinner in the next section.